{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12180\viewh8580\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 README.TXT\
\
This folder contains the M51 LL strip maps and cubes that have been created with PAHFIT (version 1).  The LL data has been fit separately from the SL data which can be found in a separate folder.\
\
Types of maps:\
1. Map: Map of integrated flux in W/m^2/sr\
2. EW: Map of equivalent width in microns\
3. FWHM:  Map of line FWHM.  PAHFIT holds Dust Feature FWHMs constant but floats the line FWHMs.\
4. Unc: Map of PAHFIT uncertainty.\
\
Nomencalture note:\
df -> Dust feature. These are presumable PAHs but JD calls them dust features in PAHFIT.  In files with df, the numbers following the name are the wavelength in microns.  Therefore, df_16_5_* is the 16.5 micron dust feature.\
\
\
Types of cubes:\
cube:  The concatenated LL cube(units: MJy/sr)\
smooth_cube:  The 3x3 box smoothed concatenated cube(units: MJy/sr)\
pahfit_cube: The pahfit cube(units: MJy/sr)\
pahfit_continuum_fit_cube:  The cube of the fit to the continuum(units: MJy/sr)\
pahfit_cont_sub_cube:  The continuum subtracted PAHFIT cube(units: of MJy/sr)\
unc: uncertainty cube\
smooth_unc: smoothed uncertainty cube\
residual_cube:  The smoothed cube - the pahfit cube\
\
Tables:\
I have attached ll1 and ll2  tables that have the wavelengths of each plane in the cubes.\
\
NGC5194 Cubes:\
These are the cubes that I PAHFITTED.  In running PAHFIT, I found a few stripes on line data.  These are updated from the cubes that Kartik and I issued in September.\
\
Enjoy the Maps and Cubes!  If you have any questions, you can reach me at gbrunner@ipac.caltech.edu.\
\
\
}