{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf420
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset77 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Dear Editor,\
\
Attached are our responses to the referee\'d5s comments for manuscript number 72589, \'d2Warm Molecular Gas in M51: Mapping the Excitation Temperature\
and Mass of H2 with the Spitzer Infrared Spectrograph\'d3 by Gregory Brunner et al. \
\
1. Does the article contain significant new results or theories and\
does it reflect sufficiently high scientific standards to warrant its\
publication in The Astrophysical Journal?\
\
- The paper presents temperature and surface density distributions of\
  warm molecular gas traced by molecular line emission, and a\
  comparison to other tracers of the ISM. These are very new results,\
  and certainly deserve to be published in The Astrophysical\
  Journal. However, some revision is needed which is stated in the\
  comments below.\
\
2. Do you have any comments or criticisms that may be helpful to the\
author to improve or correct the paper? In cases that may be\
ambiguous, please specify whether you consider the suggested changes\
to be mandatory for publication or advisory.\
\
- Below it is stated that clarification (with in some cases an\
  additional figure) or rephrasing of some parts of the text is\
  required. I am wondering whether it is useful to show the comparison\
  with both the density distribution and the individual H2 line maps\
  (8 and 9, 10 and 11, 13 and 14), while leaving out a comparison with\
  the dust lanes which are quoted in their discussion and\
  conclusions. Below more detailed comments are given in the report.\
\
Response:  We have added a comparison between the H2 maps and V band imagery of M51 that shows the dust lanes.  The comparisons are shown in Figures 12 and 14.\
\
3.  Do you think that it is necessary for you to see the revised\
version of the manuscript?\
\
- The revision is substantial, and I would like to see it again,\
  before it can be approved.\
\
Response:  Below is a point-by-point response to the referee\'d5s comments.\
\
Section 2\
\
- It is stated in the paper that the several H2 lines are blended with\
  PAH complexes and other lines. They used PAHFIT to decompose the\
  spectrum and to correct for the dust emission etc. This routine is\
  described by Smith et al. 2007. This seems all very complicated, and\
  therefore it is not sufficient to only mention this, but I would\
  also like to see some typical spectra (perhaps take the same\
  regions for which the excitation diagrams are shown), which are\
  decomposed and show the different contributions (PAH complexes,\
  line etc.). I would also like to see what the uncertainties are in\
  this procedure.\
\
Response:  We have given more detail about the procedure that we use to decompose the M51 spectra.  We have added a Figure 2, showing sample spectra from within the 3 Regions that we have defined in our paper.  The spectra also show the PAHFIT spectral decomposition for each feature.  I think that you will find this figure very helpful.  We have added some discussion of uncertainties but we also reference the reader to Section 4 of Smith et al. (2006) for a more in depth discussion of uncertainties in PAHFIT line measurements.\
\
- It is also mentioned that they additionally to the PAHFIT procedure,\
  an additional code is used. Could you please explicitly state what\
  this code is doing ? \
\
Response:  When we referred to the \'d2additional code\'d3, what we really meant is the code that we have written to run PAHFIT, while keeping the position on the sky of all of the PAHFIT output.  We have clarified what our code does.\
\
Section 3\
\
- It is stated in the paper that maps of the uncertainty in the flux\
  are available, so why not give this results ? There are very nice\
  maps shown of the several H2 lines, however, noise levels are not\
  mentioned. They state that, e.g, the H2 S(4) map has a low\
  signal-to-noise ratio, but are not quantitative in any way.\
\
Response:  We do not think that it is necessary to show the maps;  however, we have added some discussion of how the uncertainty in measured line fluxes vary as a function of position along the M51 strips.\
\
- The spatial distribution of the intensity is hard to compare since\
  the H2 S(0), S(1), and S(3) maps have the lowest point in color bar\
  corresponding to zero intensity, and for the other maps to a higher\
  intensity. In these maps S(2), S(4), and S(5), it seems that the\
  emission is less extended, than it is in reality.\
\
Response:  We understand that the color bars for the 6 maps are not exactly the same.  We could either modify the color bar or re-stretch the image but feel that would be artificial and possibly confusing to the reader.  We have played with using a logarithmic color bar, however, even using a log scale, the lowest points on the color bar are not the same for each H2 line map.\
\
- The H2 S(4) and S(5) maps show a trail of intensity peaks at the\
  edges, especially on the long left side of the strip. Is this real?\
  These regions are left out in the determination of the distribution\
  of the density and temperature distribution due to the offset in the\
  SL and LL strips, but could you say something about it in the text?\
\
Response:  The emission seen along the left side of the strip is not real.  We have added a mention of this in the text.\
\
- The temperature and density are inversely correlated, which is\
  stated to be real, and not due to lower signal-to-noise in the\
  inter-arm regions. Again: Could you please make this argument in a\
  quantitative sense ? This statement is too vague.\
\
Response:  Within our group, we have actually had differing opinions on this.  Some of us feel that it is real while others feel it is artificial owing to either low signal to noise or possible filling factor issues.  The solution we came up with was to average over a large inter-arm swath and compare the averaged inter-arm temperature to the temperature in the spiral arms.  After doing this, we saw that the temperature is indeed higher in the inter-arm regions.  \
\
- In Fig. 5 in the SE corner of the map, it seems that the temperature\
  is not determined. Is this due to a low S/N ratio? Nothing is said\
  about it in the caption or the text.\
\
Response: This is a region where the H2 S(0) line was completely undetected preventing the measurement of the H2 temperature and mass there.  We have now mentioned this in the figure caption.\
\
Section 4\
\
4.1\
\
- The last sentence sound kind of trivial to me: "Previous studies of\
  the warm H2 temperature and mass have yielded average values rather\
  than maximum values.", which is of course due to the lower\
  resolution in these studies. Maybe you just state that your results\
  are consistent with previous studies at lower resolution.\
\
Response:  I have reiterated that our results are consistent with previous studies at lower resolution.  However, we have kept the statement that \'d2previous studies have yielded average values rather maximum or minimum values\'c9\'d3 One of the Co-authors is interested in understanding how much H2 is missed due to beam averaging effects and what the spatial variations in H2 mass and temperature look like in other nearby galaxies.\
\
4.2\
\
- What do you mean with the following sentence: "The largest hot H2\
  surface densities are found in the nuclear region of M51 suggesting\
  that the hot phase is more efficiently excited by nuclear activity".\
  I think it is meant to state that in the region where there is\
  nuclear activity a larger fraction of the ISM can be maintained in\
  the hot phase, and that the ISM in general is heated more\
  efficiently by nuclear activity. When the hot phase would be more\
  efficiently heated by nuclear activity, this region should show a\
  higher temperature for than the hot phase in other regions. However,\
  the temperature distribution shows that this is the other way\
  around.\
\
Response:  We have rephrased the statement according to your recommendation.\
\
- How can you make a comparison to dust lanes when you do not show\
  them ? They are certainly not seen in the Halpha images ! There are\
  optical images available in literature where you can compare to.\
\
Response:  We have added 2 additional figures (Figures 12 and 14) comparing the H2 maps to a V band image of M51.  The V band image shows the dust lanes. \
\
- The statement that the authors "feel" that the [O IV] emission\
  distribution derived from the low resolution spectra accurately\
  reflects the distribution seen in the high resolution spectra, is\
  rather vague. Is it possible to say how representative these spectra\
  are which are quoted ?\
\
Response:  This was a poorly phrased statement.  We have rephrased it and given the size of the region that these spectra are representative of.\
\
- I think that this sentence should be rephrased: "The coincidence of\
  [O IV] emission and the hot H2 suggests that nuclear activity and\
  shocks appear to be more efficient means to excite the hot H2 phase\
  than the warm H2 phase." Again: the temperature of the hot phase\
  would be higher when comparing to regions outside the\
  nucleus. Shouldn't the conclusion be that the nuclear activity heats\
  the ISM in general in a more efficient way, which means that you\
  find a higher surface density H2 in the hot phase.\
\
Response:  We have rephrased the statement according to the referee\'d5s recommendation.\
\
- In the last paragraph, I think it should be stated that the X-rays\
  play an important role in producing a hot phase, not exciting the\
  hot phase.\
\
Response:  We have changed the statement from saying \'d2X-rays play an important role in exciting the hot phase\'d3 to \'d2X-rays play an important role in producing the hot phase.\'d3\
\
5\
\
Conclusion 3:\
\
- Remarks about the production of warm and hot H2 should be rephrased:\
  UV photons are not more efficiently heating the warm phase and shocks or X-ray more efficient in heating a hot phase. The warm\
  phase is mostly produced by UV photons while the hot phase is mostly\
  produced by shocks and X-rays.\
\
Response: We have clarified conclusion 3 according to the referee\'d5s rephrasing.\
\
Conclusion 5: \
\
- No states of coincidence with dust lanes can be made without showing them.\
\
Response:  We have now added figures showing a comparison between the H2 and dust lanes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720

\f1 \cf0 \
}